Now we're going to discuss
data warehouses. Fun fact.
I once worked in a warehouse,
but it wasn't a data warehouse.
It was an industrial
tool warehouse.
Anyway, let's get
started. Data warehouses.
Now let's discuss
another popular enterprise
data storage solution.
Data warehouses.
Data warehouses were
originally developed for
big data and business
intelligence applications,
but they're also valuable
tools for production ML.
A data warehouse is
a technology that
aggregates data from
one or more sources
so that it can be
processed and analyzed.
A data warehouse is usually meant
for long running batch jobs
and their storage is optimized
for read operations.
Data entering into the warehouse
may not be in real time.
When you're storing data
in a data warehouse,
your data needs to follow
a consistent schema.
Let's look at some key
features of data warehouses.
A data warehouse is
subject oriented and
the information
that's stored in it
revolves around a topic.
For example, data stored
in a data warehouse
may be focused
on the organization's
customers or vendors, or etc.
The data in data warehouse may be
collected from multiple
types of sources,
such as relational databases
or files and so forth.
The data collected in a
data warehouse is usually
timestamped to
maintain the context
of when it was generated.
Data warehouses are nonvolatile,
which means the
previous versions of
data are not erased
when new data is added.
That means that you
can access the data
stored in a data warehouse as
a function of time and
understand how that
data has evolved.
Let's look at some advantages
of data warehouses.
First, data warehouses
offer enhanced ability to
analyze your data by
time stamping your data.
A data warehouse can
help maintain contexts.
When you store your data
in a data warehouse,
it follows a consistent
schema and that helps
improve the data quality
and consistency.
Studies have shown that the
return on investment for
data warehouses tend to be
fairly high for many use cases.
Lastly, the read and query
efficiency from data
warehouses is typically high,
giving you fast
access to your data.
You're probably familiar
with databases.
A natural question is,
what's the difference
between a data
warehouse and a database?
Here are some comparisons.
Data warehouses are meant
for analyzing data,
whereas databases are often
used for transaction purposes.
Inside a data warehouse,
there may be a delay
between storing
the data and the data getting
reflected in the system.
But in a database,
data is usually available
immediately after it's stored.
Data warehouses store data
as a function of time,
and therefore, historical
data is also available.
Data warehouses are
typically capable of storing
a larger amount of data
compared to databases.
Queries in data
warehouses are complex in
nature and tend to
run for a long time.
Whereas queries in database are
simple and tend to
run in real time.
Normalization is not necessary
for data warehouses,
but it should be
used with databases.